# Graphing Quadratics - implementation notes

This document contains notes related to the implementation of Graphing Quadratic. This is not an exhaustive description of the implementation.  The intention is to provide a high-level overview, and to supplement the internal documentation (source code comments) and external documentation (design documents).  

The audience for this document is software developers who are familiar with JavaScript and PhET simulation development, as described in [PhET Development Overview](http://bit.ly/phet-html5-development-overview).  The reader should also be familiar with general design patterns used in PhET simulations.

Before reading this document, see [model.md](https://github.com/phetsims/graphing-quadratics/blob/master/doc/model.md), which provides a high-level description of the simulation model.

You may also wish to review the [Graphing Quadratics design document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wgxqGIhs37BLamT2Kpqnm1pswbrM4i6Hd9edGy3bNCg/edit), but note that it is not necessarily up to date.

## Terminology

This section defines terminology that you'll see used throughout the internal and external documentation.  There's no need to memorize this section; skim it once, refer back to it as you explore the implementation.

Standard terminology:

* axis of symmetry - line that intersects the vertex
* constant term - the _c_ term of _y_ = _ax_<sup>2</sup> + _bx_ + _c_
* curve - generalization of a line, whose curvature need not be zero (geometric definition)
* directrix - a fixed line used in describing a curve or surface
* focus - a point on the interior of a parabola, used in the formal definition of the curve
* line - a straight curve (geometric definition)
* linear term - the _bx_ term of _y_ = _ax_<sup>2</sup> + _bx_ + _c_
* parabola - a plane curve generated by a point moving so that its distance from a fixed point (focus) is equal to its distance from a fixed line (directrix)
* quadratic term - the _ax_<sup>2</sup> term of _y_ = _ax_<sup>2</sup> + _bx_ + _c_
* roots - or real roots, zero or more point(s) where a polynomial intersects the x axis
* standard form - see [model.md](https://github.com/phetsims/graphing-quadratics/blob/master/doc/model.md)
* vertex - the highest or lowest point of a parabola, also it's turning point
* vertex form - see [model.md](https://github.com/phetsims/graphing-quadratics/blob/master/doc/model.md)

PhET-specific terminology:

* alternative vertex form - see [model.md](https://github.com/phetsims/graphing-quadratics/blob/master/doc/model.md)
* erase button - button with an eraser icon, used to erase the saved curve
* graph contents - everything that is displayed on the graph, excluding the grid and axes
* 'hide graph contents' button - button with an eyeball icon that shows/hides the graph contents
* interactive quadratic - the quadratic that the user can interact with, via sliders, pickers, and/or manipulators
* manipulator - shaded sphere that appears on the graph, used to change some aspect of the interactive quadratic
* saved curve - the saved state of the interactive quadratic, appears on the graph as a gray line
* save button - button with a camera, used to create the saved quadratic

## Common Patterns

This section describes how this simulation uses patterns that are generally common to PhET simulations.

**Model-view transform**: This simulation has a model-view transform that maps from the graph (model) coordinate frame to the view coordinate frame. 

**Query parameters**: Query parameters are used to enable sim-specific features, mainly for debugging and
testing. Sim-specific query parameters are documented in
[GQQueryParameters](https://github.com/phetsims/graphing-quadratics/blob/master/js/common/GQQueryParameters.js).

**Assertions**: The implementation makes liberal use of `assert` to verify pre/post assumptions and perform argument validation. If you are making modifications to this sim, do so with assertions enabled via the `ea` query parameter.

**Memory management**: Unless otherwise documented in the source code, assume that `unlink`, `removeListener`, `dispose`, etc. are generally not needed. Most object instances exist for the lifetime of the sim, and there are no dynamic objects that participate in observer-observable relationships.

## Model

This section provides an overview of the most important model elements, and some miscellaneous topics
related to the model.

TODO

## View

This section provides an overview of the most important view components, and some miscellaneous topics
related to the view.

TODO

## Related simulations

This sim reuses a very small number of model and view components from Graphing Lines. Search for "GRAPHING_LINES/" to identify what is reused.
